Task 1: List A

Google Drive

In the year 2012, Google launched a service named “Google Drive” with the aim of enabling its users to store their data and access it from wherever they want to. It offered an initial storage space of 15GB to its users which can be extended through a paid monthly subscription. To enhance user experience, Google also added some special features to the service like File sharing, Collective writing and Editing.

Users can use Google Drive to submit their work online simply by sharing it with the desired person. Students can create their assignments and submit them by sharing it with the professor online. Since Google drive is a device independent service, individuals can access their data or create work from anywhere just by logging into the drive. 

There are times when a work has to be done in a team but it’s not always possible for team members to sit together and discuss. Google drive empowers users to collectively write and edit their work in such situations. A member from the team can share the document with others on the drive and then everyone can add their chunk of information to the document. Members can also comment and edit the document online as and when required.
Not only this, users can host their websites online through Google Drive. In programming courses where students learn to create websites and do not have a web server, Google Drive allows them to  upload their code on the drive, make sharing permissions  public and see how the code works. 
In addition, Google drive enables users to create documents, presentations, spreadsheets, drawings etc. For non-programming courses, students can create documents which can include charts, table’s containing results of a survey. They can also create presentations on some research conducted by them or can create documents for assignments like this.






Task 2: List B
GitHub

GitHub is a code sharing and publishing service which was launched in the year 2008. Users can create a “Repository” on GitHub which they can use for writing codes, posting documents etc. 
It is widely used by programmers not only to host their websites online but also to learn about other programming languages. Users can read articles, documents on the programming languages they are keen to learn. It also has a software component that enables users to use GitHub with Eclipse. GitHub’s version control feature enables programmers to use an older version of their code whenever needed, that way they can edit their code and go back to the previous version if they make any mistakes.
Many times authors, writers, researchers etc. make blog posts on GitHub about their work to seek feedback, while others make or suggest changes to their work. This is very helpful for students as they can also post their work on GitHub and make changes to it before submitting, thereby improving their work.
Not only this, GitHub allows collaborative work for teams. Team members can write their part of the code chunk and can add it to the main program after discussion by using “Pull Requests”. Members can also edit the program as and when needed.
GitHub can also be used in non-programming courses like this. Users can use “The GitHub Blog”. Students can read posts by others related to the research field they are involved in. Like in this class we used GitHub to search for posts related to the language “R”. 



